this is my first review that i post to this newsgroup , and i kind of feel like i have to say something negative about this film . 
no one else seems to care that it takes certain liberties that should not be taken with a historical story . 
however , even if one thinks of it as fiction , " the prince of egypt " remains shallow . 
but i'll begin from the beginning . 
the biggest difference between the original , biblical story and this version is that moses has some semblance of divinity in the bible , whereas the animated version gives the impression of a reluctant hero . 
maybe it's just me , but if i knew i had god on my side , i'd have a little bit more confidence . 
there are other differences as well , such as a lack of important female characters and the passing over of the original pharoah's death like it's nothing but a thing . 
most of all , though , the story's focus has shifted . 
rather than being a story about father-son , man-ethnicity , man-god , " the prince of egypt " is almost solely about the brother-brother relationship between rameses and moses . 
i was originally excited about this story element until i saw the movie , where it came off as maudlin . 
rameses and moses squabble like children and then , in the interests of peace , moses saves rameses' butt , even though moses was the one who started it . . . 
 * yawn * i didn't care anymore by the time moses ran off for murdering an overseer ( which , of course , never happened in the original story - moses was exiled ) . 
 but enough about the differences . 
 let's talk about the movie itself . 
 it features a moses who , in the interests of making the character more human , lacks any divinity whatsoever , which isn't convincing at all to anyone who knows who god is . 
 it features a cookie-cutter " i-wanna-please-dada " rameses , who at least is given dignity by the voicework of ralph fiennes ( from schindler's list , among other things ) . 
 the film also features an extremely annoying character by way of the " new-improved " miriam , voiced by the ever-antsy sandra bullock , even though the most irritating thing about her is her tendency to burst into song for no apparent reason ( here bullock is replaced by a singing voice ) . 
 speaking of which , it contains * very * annoying music . 
 it contains shallow writing . 
 it features extraordinary animation , which is one good thing i can say about this film . 
 most of all , it contains an attempt to commercialize , homogenize , and mass-market a story about a manifestation of god . 
 i am not christian , but i got the impression of blasphemy . 
 the writers and producers took a butcher knife and chop-chopped into the story . 


 i am starting to write this review before going to see strawberry and chocolate , cuba's oscar nominee for best foreign film , directed by tomas gutierrez alea ( who also directed the sometimes and in some circles critically acclaimed memorias del subdesarrollo-- " memories of underdevelopment " . 
		 i saw memorias as part of a cuban cinema class back in the late '70s ; it merged the politics of the cuban revolution with mundane elements of the human condition . 
		 i knew then that memorias was probably a state-sanctioned political missive , and now expect strawberry will follow suit . 
		 fellow internetters , primarily in the newsgroup dedicated to cuba ( soc . culture . cuba ) , have mentioned that strawberry is a harsh criticism of the revolution and its current state of affairs . 
		 i have jumped to the conclusion that strawberry is nothing more than a veiled attempt at espousing the party line--it probably looks like political criticism , but it ain't so . 
		 having some first hand and extensive anecdotal knowledge of castro's repressiveness , i can't conceive of his tolerating honest and adversarial criticism of the revolution , and i can't imagine his letting anyone even suggest his failure as a leader of a failed movement . 
		 as kids say these days , duh ! , the revolution's current state needs no criticism ; its physical and spiritual crumbling is self evident . 
		 the proper questions to put relate to castro's legitimacy . 
		 i bet the film takes castro's power for granted , and that this or any other movie , produced under cuba's state control , cannot question his right to run cuba's political show ( ongoing now for more than 36 years ) . 
		 that's why i just can't believe strawberry is an honest criticism of the regime . 
		 let's see what happens after the room goes dark and the screen lights up . 
		 i saw the film--twice . 
		 i was right ; castro remained intact . 
		 strawberry negotiates the relationship between a young " dialectic materialist , " as he describes himself , and a homosexual photographer ( diego ) in 1979 cuba . 
		 the young man ( david ) is the son of peasants ; a symbol of the revolution's reason for being . 
		 grateful to the revolution for the opportunity to receive a university education , he studies political science instead of literature , his avocation , because he perceives it is his duty . 
		 therein lies a likely unintended irony , since cuba has no need for political theoreticians . 
		 cuba's government is castro . 
		 diego's lifestyle is the antithesis of revolutionary life . 
		 he enjoys the finer things--tea , opera , art . 
		 he does not do " voluntary work " for the revolution . 
 his small apartment is a sensual oasis . 
 the moniker " bourgeois " figuratively hangs over his head during the early parts of the movie . 
 however , he is a " revolucionario " in his own way . 
 the supporting roles are filled by : an aging busybody with a heart of gold and a troubled psyche ; david's roommate , who rally takes the communist party line to its expected extreme ; david's ex-girlfriend , who dumped him for another guy , yet wants to bed him before she leaves for italy with her husband ; german , a gay sculptor whose work diego is attempting to exhibit , and who strikes a faustian pact with the government . 
 gutierrez alea and co-director juan carlos tabio do a fine job at almost showing that homosexuals can be revolutionaries too . 
 heck , towards the end of the film you begin to think the guy deserves a medal for his patriotic fervor . 
 he really loves the revolution ( as supposedly does everybody else in cuba ) and wants to make it better by exposing and correcting some of its flaws . 
 real criticism is missing though . 
 this movie is political window dressing . 
 luis aguilar leon's op . 
 ed . 
 piece on fresa in the miami herald ( 10 march 1995 , at 21a ) did not color my judgment ; it presaged my intuition . 
 aguilar leon expressed my sentiment about this film's political angle best : like many artistic manifestations in cuba , strawberry and chocolate sprang from a totally manipulated environment . 
 as art critic ivan de la nuez well states in the latest issue of the magazine postmodern notes , the silenced artists are those who refuse to accept " the charade in which artists can provoke up to a point , while the institutions legitimize themselves by forbidding them to go beyond that point . " 
 although terrible propaganda , this is otherwise a fine film . 


 i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder . 
 i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house . 
 so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie . 
 but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place . 
 the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house . 
 when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ? 
		 gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids . 
 actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever . 
 when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . " 
 obviously . 
 all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago . 
 so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids . 
 that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . " 
		 decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table . 
 so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character . 
 and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q . 
		 test went straight off the chart ! " ) 
 and attracts electrical power . 
 this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class . 
 goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest . 
 but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing . 
 i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) . 
 that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself . 
 but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization . 
 none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance . 
 i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened . 
 from noraruth@aol . com 
 mon jun 10 15 : 04 : 03 edt 1996 article : 3654 of rec . arts . movies . reviews 
 path : nntphub . cb . att . com ! not-for-mail 
 from : noraruth@aol . com 
  ( andrew hicks ) newsgroups : rec . arts . movies . reviews , rec . arts . sf . reviews 
	subject : review : powder ( 1995 ) followup-to : rec . arts . movies . current-films , rec . arts . sf . movies 
	date : 10 jun 1996 18 : 16 : 03 gmt organization : university of missouri - columbia lines : 70 sender : ecl@mtcts1 . att . com 
	 ( evelyn c . leeper ) approved : ecl@mtcts1 . att . com 
	 message-id : " > reply-to : noraruth@aol . com 
	  ( andrew hicks ) nntp-posting-host : mtcts2 . mt . lucent . com 
		summary : r . a . m . r . 
#05425 keywords : author=hicks originator : ecl@mtcts2 xref : nntphub . cb . att . com 
		rec . arts . movies . reviews : 3654 
		rec . arts . sf . reviews : 710 
		status : ro 
		powder a film review by andrew hicks copyright 1996 andrew hicks / fatboy productions 
		i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder . 
		i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house . 
		so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie . 
		but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place . 
		the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house . 
		when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ? 
				gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids . 
		actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever . 
		when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . " 
		obviously . 
		all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago . 
		so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids . 
		that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . " 
				decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table . 
		so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character . 
		and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q . 
				test went straight off the chart ! " ) 
		and attracts electrical power . 
		this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class . 
		goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest . 
		but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing . 
		i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) . 
		that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself . 
		but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization . 
		none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance . 
		i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened . 

		it seems that i've stopped enjoying movies that should be fun to watch . 
		take payback , for example , a movie that most people seem to like . 
		however , it's horrible schlock , straight out of hollywood's vast talent for sucking creativity out of movies . 
		it was written and directed by a guy who should have done better ; however , maybe he did do better , after all , 30 percent of the movie isn't his own . 
		mel gibson , that hollywood zombie , decided he didn't like the ending and had another director reshoot it . 
		what a crock . 
		if you sign on to do a movie , then do it the way the script calls for . 
		why film a movie and then look at it later and say , - no , i changed my mind , i don't like the ending . 
		you're fired . 
		let's get someone else to do it . 
		- i suppose honor is dead in hollywood . 
		the end of the film is , of course , hollywoodized . 
		which is to say that it's happy and the guy you root for beats impossible odds to win his prize . 
		in this case , as is most victories in hollywood movies , gibson's prize is a blond and money . 
		i miss originality in film , i really do . 
		i think audiences are so starved for it that they'll flop down a lot of money in hopes that a movie will be original . 
		payback's tagline - get ready to root for the bad guy - promised an original idea , but it was far from the truth . 
		while gibson's character certainly broke the law , he was a character that had honor ( odd that gibson himself seems to have very little of it ) , wouldn't kill in front of children and protects his blond woman . 
		there's nothing bad about him - he's a hollywood character , a person who could never exist in real life . 
		and gibson knows it - he spends his time trying to act like a " bad guy " , and instead comes off as pretentious and arrogant . 
		the story involves gibson being double-crossed by his partner ( who is a real bad guy , which made me wish that we could root for him ) over $70 , 000 . 
		gibson recovers from multiple gunshots , is pissed ( naturally ) , and will do whatever it takes to get the exact amount of money back - no more , no less . 
		he makes a point of it that it's strictly 70 grand . 
		a real bad guy would have made his ex-partner pay 25% interest . 
		this idea is completely stretched out . 
		gibson ends up going after his partner and the chicago mafia that his partner is affiliated with . 
		what i didn't understand - this is the chicago mafia . 
		$70 , 000 is like spare change to them . 
		they'd probably just pay the guy rather than go through the trouble of dealing with him . 
		i think they'd respect a guy going through this much trouble for a simple $70 , 000 . 
		maybe i'm being too hard on the movie . 
		perhaps the filmmakers were just trying to make a simple popcorn movie . 
		i read roger ebert's review and he liked gibson in the role because he is a comic at heart playing a bad guy . 
		that's why we're allowed to root for him . 
		and it's true - gibson walks the movie as if he's smiling at a joke he just heard . 
		but he's wrong here . 
		i wanted a lee marvin or old-time clint eastwood or somebody who wasn't a comic , just an ass kicker . 
		as a side note , i've just checked the internet movie database and discovered that i am the 38th person to post a newsgroup review of payback . 
		after this many reviews , why would anyone want to read this ? 
		really , i don't care . 
		i'm just trying to gain membership into the on-line film critics society by posting as many reviews as i can . 

